README.md, before:

# 🎤 Rhyme Rarity Checker
**Rhyme Rarity Checker** is an AI-powered tool that evaluates how well two words rhyme and how rare that rhyme pairing is in published literature, music, and poetry. Built with **Gradio** and powered by **OpenAI's GPT-3.5-turbo**, it distinguishes between rhyme types such as *perfect, slant, assonance, consonance*, and *forced*.

👉 **Live Demo** on Hugging Face Spaces: [Try it here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/romado33/RhymeRater/)

---

## ✨ Features
- 🎯 **Rhyme Type Classification**  
  Detects rhyme types: perfect, slant, assonance, consonance, forced, or none.
- 📈 **Rarity Score (0–100)**  
  Indicates how rare the rhyme pairing is in published use (0 = common, 100 = rare).
- 🧠 **LLM-Powered Explanation**  
  Provides a brief explanation of the rhyme logic used and reference examples.
- 🔧 **Gradio UI**  
  Clean, responsive, and easy to use for poets, lyricists, rappers, and creatives.

---

## 🧪 Example Pairs
| Word 1   | Word 2      | Rhyme Type | Notes                              |
|----------|-------------|-------------|-------------------------------------|
| cat      | hat         | Perfect     | Common children's rhyme             |
| orange   | door hinge  | Forced      | Popular example of a near-rhyme     |
| fire     | choir       | Slant       | Similar vowels, different consonants |
| love     | above       | Slant       | Frequently used but imperfect       |

---

## 🚀 Running Locally

### 1. Clone the repo
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/rhyme-rarity-checker.git
cd rhyme-rarity-checker
```

### 2. Install dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 3. Add your OpenAI API key
Create a `.env` file:
```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your-key-here
```
Or set the environment variable manually.

### 4. Run the app
```bash
python app.py
```
It will launch on [http://localhost:7860](http://localhost:7860)

### 5. Use the CLI
Analyze pairs directly from the command line:
```bash
python cli.py cat hat orange "door hinge"
```
Sample output:
```
Word 1 | Word 2      | Rhyme Type | Rarity
-------+-------------+------------+-------
cat    | hat         | Perfect    | 10
orange | door hinge  | Forced     | 85
```

Alternative format:
```bash
python cli.py cat hat fire choir
```
This prints a table:
```
Word 1          Word 2          Type        Rarity
--------------  --------------  ----------  ------
cat             hat             Perfect     10
fire            choir           Slant       65
```

### 6. Run tests
```bash
pytest
```

---

## 📦 Requirements
From `requirements.txt`:
```
openai>=1.3.0
gradio
pytest
```

---

## 🔐 API Key Info
To use this app, you must have:
- An [OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys)
- A payment method enabled (ChatGPT Plus does *not* include API credits)

---

## 🛠️ Troubleshooting
- **API key missing**: Ensure the `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable is set or provided in a `.env` file.
- **Invalid API key**: Double-check that the key has no typos and that your OpenAI account has API access.
- **Network timeout or connection error**: Verify your internet connection and firewall settings, then try again. The OpenAI service may also be temporarily unavailable.

---

## 🤝 Contributing
Want to suggest rhyme logic improvements, rhyme corpus integration, or add offline fallback?  
Feel free to fork and open a pull request!

---

## 📄 License
MIT License

---

## 🙌 Credits
Built by [your-name] using:
- [Gradio](https://gradio.app)
- [OpenAI API](https://platform.openai.com)
- [Hugging Face Spaces](https://huggingface.co/spaces)

Commit message:

Improve phonemizer handling and tests

README.md, after:

# 🎤 Rhyme Rarity Checker
**Rhyme Rarity Checker** is an AI-powered tool that evaluates how well two words rhyme and how rare that rhyme pairing is in published literature, music, and poetry. Built with **Gradio** and powered by **OpenAI's GPT-3.5-turbo**, it distinguishes between rhyme types such as *perfect, slant, assonance, consonance*, and *forced*.

👉 **Live Demo** on Hugging Face Spaces: [Try it here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/romado33/RhymeRater/)

---

## ✨ Features
- 🎯 **Rhyme Type Classification**  
  Detects rhyme types: perfect, slant, assonance, consonance, forced, or none.
- 📈 **Rarity Score (0–100)**  
  Indicates how rare the rhyme pairing is in published use (0 = common, 100 = rare).
- 🧠 **LLM-Powered Explanation**  
  Provides a brief explanation of the rhyme logic used and reference examples.
- 🔧 **Gradio UI**  
  Clean, responsive, and easy to use for poets, lyricists, rappers, and creatives.

---

## 🧪 Example Pairs
| Word 1   | Word 2      | Rhyme Type | Notes                              |
|----------|-------------|-------------|-------------------------------------|
| cat      | hat         | Perfect     | Common children's rhyme             |
| orange   | door hinge  | Forced      | Popular example of a near-rhyme     |
| fire     | choir       | Slant       | Similar vowels, different consonants |
| love     | above       | Slant       | Frequently used but imperfect       |

---

## 🚀 Running Locally

### 1. Clone the repo
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/rhyme-rarity-checker.git
cd rhyme-rarity-checker
```

### 2. Install dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

`phonemizer` relies on the [espeak](http://espeak.sourceforge.net/) backend. Install it via your system package manager, e.g.

```bash
sudo apt-get install espeak
# or on macOS
brew install espeak
```

### 3. Add your OpenAI API key
Create a `.env` file:
```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your-key-here
```
Or set the environment variable manually.

### 4. Run the app
```bash
python app.py
```
It will launch on [http://localhost:7860](http://localhost:7860)

### 5. Use the CLI
Analyze pairs directly from the command line:
```bash
python cli.py cat hat orange "door hinge"
```
Sample output:
```
Word 1 | Word 2      | Rhyme Type | Rarity
-------+-------------+------------+-------
cat    | hat         | Perfect    | 10
orange | door hinge  | Forced     | 85
```

Alternative format:
```bash
python cli.py cat hat fire choir
```
This prints a table:
```
Word 1          Word 2          Type        Rarity
--------------  --------------  ----------  ------
cat             hat             Perfect     10
fire            choir           Slant       65
```

### 6. Run tests
```bash
pytest
```

---

## 📦 Requirements
From `requirements.txt`:
```
openai>=1.3.0
gradio
pytest
phonemizer
python-Levenshtein
```

---

## 🔐 API Key Info
To use this app, you must have:
- An [OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys)
- A payment method enabled (ChatGPT Plus does *not* include API credits)

---

## 🛠️ Troubleshooting
- **API key missing**: Ensure the `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable is set or provided in a `.env` file.
- **Invalid API key**: Double-check that the key has no typos and that your OpenAI account has API access.
- **Network timeout or connection error**: Verify your internet connection and firewall settings, then try again. The OpenAI service may also be temporarily unavailable.

---

## 🤝 Contributing
Want to suggest rhyme logic improvements, rhyme corpus integration, or add offline fallback?  
Feel free to fork and open a pull request!

---

## 📄 License
MIT License

---

## 🙌 Credits
Built by [your-name] using:
- [Gradio](https://gradio.app)
- [OpenAI API](https://platform.openai.com)
- [Hugging Face Spaces](https://huggingface.co/spaces)
